Calling JetPack APIs documentation (#11371)
flutter/website: src/content/platform-integration/android/call-jetpack-apis.md

---
title: "Calling JetPack APIs"

> description: "Utilize the latest Android APIs from your Dart code"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Use the latest Android APIs from your Dart code"
```

I really like this description of the difference between "use" and "utilize". Utilize is often misused.  https://eliteediting.com/resources/grammar/use-vs-utilize/#:~:text=The%20definition%20of%20use%20is,an%20assumed%20strategy%20of%20employment.

Author: TIL

---

<?code-excerpt path-base="platform_integration"?>

Flutter apps running on Android can always make use of the

> latest APIs, the first day they are released on Android, no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
latest APIs on the first day they are released on Android, no
```

matter what. This page outlines available ways to invoke
Android-specific APIs.

## Use an existing solution

> In most scenarios, you can [use a plugin][use-a-plugin] to
> invoke native APIs without writing any custom boilerplate or
> glue code yourself.
> 
> [use-a-plugin]: /platform-integration/android/call-jetpack-apis#use-a-plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most scenarios, you can use a plugin (as shown in the next section)
to invoke native APIs without writing any custom boilerplate or
glue code yourself.
```

### Use a plugin

Using a plugin is often the easiest way to access native
APIs, regardless of where your Flutter app is running. To
use plugins, visit [pub.dev][pub] and search for

> the topic you need. Most native features, including accessing

Reviewer 2: Should we filter to the Android platform, ie by searching [`platform:android`](https://pub.dev/packages?q=platform%3Aandroid)? Just a thought, I don't feel strongly

Author: Personally, even though Android requested this documentation, my perspective was still to write it such that it works for everyone.

Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Yup sounds good

common hardware like GPS, the camera, or step counters are
supported by robust plugins.

For complete guidance on adding plugins to your Flutter app,
see the [Using packages documentation][packages].

[packages]: /packages-and-plugins/using-packages
[pub]: {{site.pub}}

> Not all native featurers are supported by plugins, especially

Reviewer: "Featurers"? Please rewrite.  :)

new features immediately after release. In any scenario where
your desired native feature is not covered by a package on
[pub.dev][pub], continue on to the following sections.

## Creating a custom solution

Not all scenarios and APIs will be supported by
existing solutions; but luckily, you can always add whatever
support you need. The ensuing sections describe two different
ways to call native code from Dart.

:::note
Neither solution below is inherently better or worse than 

> existing plugins, because all plugins use one of the ensuing

Reviewer 3: Ensuing is a bit over embellished, I feel. Use one of the following two options?

Reviewer 2: FYI, "ensuing" is also used on line 45 too

Author: The ensuing commit will remove this

options.
:::

### Call native code directly via FFI

The most direct and efficient way to invoke native APIs is by

> calling it dirrectly, via FFI. This links your Dart executable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calling it directly, via FFI. This links your Dart executable
```

> calling it directly, via FFI. This links your Dart executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calling the API directly, via FFI. This links your Dart executable
```

to any specified native code at compile-time, allowing you to 

> call it directly from the UI thread through a modicum of glue

Reviewer 2: Many folks that read these docs aren't native English speakers. Consider limiting our vocabulary to stay accessible. For example, instead of "through a modicum of" consider "through a little".

I know this hampers the personality and voice of our docs :(

Author: No, that's a good call. I'll remove "modicum".

code. In most cases, [ffigen][ffigen] or [jnigen][jnigen] are
helpful in writing this glue code.

For complete guidance on directly calling native code from
your Flutter app, see the [FFI documentation][ffi].

> In the coming months, the Dart team hopes to make this process

Author: TODO: Link to this project's public roadmap / description

easier with direct support for calling native APIs using the
FFI approach, but without any need for the developer to write
glue code.

[ffi]: {{site.dart-site}}/interop/c-interop
[ffigen]: {{site.pub}}/packages/ffigen
[jnigen]: {{site.pub}}/packages/jnigen

> ### Add a MethodChannel

Reviewer 3: My understanding is that we are attempting to deprecate method channel?

Reviewer 2: We'd like to reduce our use of platform channels in favor of FFI, yes, but this will take time. If we do deprecate, it won't be any time soon - it's at least years away.

Reviewer: Interesting.

Reviewer 4: +1 to what Loic said

> [MethodChannel][methodchannels-api-docs]s are an alternate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`MethodChannel`][methodchannels-api-docs]s are an alternate
```

way Flutter apps can invoke arbitrary native code.

> Unlike the FFI solution outlined in the previous step,

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that the FFI solution was "outlined in the previous step." Unless I missed it. It was mentioned. Yes?

Author: How about "described"?

MethodChannels are always asychronous, which

> may or may not matter to you, depending on your use case. Like

Reviewer 2: Tip I learned from Shams, avoid "may" unless in legal context.

```suggestion
might or might not matter to you, depending on your use case. Like
```

Author: Shams has told me this countless times, but my brain can't keep it straight.

> might or might not matter to you, depending on your use case. Like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
might or might not matter to you, depending on your use case. As
```

> with FFI and direct calls to native code, using MethodChannels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with FFI and direct calls to native code, using a `MethodChannel`
```

requires a modicum of glue code to translate your Dart objects
into native objects, and then back again. In most cases, 
[`pkg:pigeon`][pigeon] is helpful in writing this glue code.

For complete guidance on adding MethodChannels to your Flutter

> app, see the [MethodChannels documentation][methodchannels].

Reviewer 2: Should we wrap all of the `MethodChannel` references in backticks to make it clear this is an API?

```suggestion
app, see the [`MethodChannel`s documentation][methodchannels].
```
